Testing Design


Conventions

Tests cover four layers, each catching a distinct class of regression at the cheapest point in the pipeline. Tests live alongside the code they exercise.

Vitest is the primary runner; Playwright drives the end-to-end suite. The Postgres database used by the integration suite is a disposable instance brought up by the test harness, isolated per worker. Every test file is independent: ordering across files is irrelevant, every test cleans up after itself.


1. Test Layers

  Layer        Scope                                     Tooling                      Catches
  -----------  ----------------------------------------  ---------------------------  ----------------------------------------
  Unit         Pure functions, small modules             Vitest                       Logic bugs in helpers and math
  Integration  Routes + services against real Postgres   Vitest + Testcontainers      Wiring, transaction guarantees, SQL drift
  E2E          Real browser against real server          Playwright (Chromium/FF/WK)  Full user flows, UI regressions
  Contract     API response shape against TS types       Vitest + Zod schemas         Drift between mapper and declared model


2. Test Layout

  tests/unit/ mirrors src/lib/. Each module gets its own test file:
    - premium.test.ts: price and fee math.
    - password.test.ts: hash, verify, policy.
    - tokens.test.ts: sign, verify, expiry, kind-mismatch.
    - mappers.test.ts: DTO conversion.
    - reqparse.test.ts: input normalisation.

  tests/integration/ holds api/ for route handler tests and services/ for direct service tests. Each test runs inside a database transaction that rolls back at afterEach, leaving the database byte-for-byte identical between tests.

  tests/e2e/<persona>/ holds Playwright specs per persona (consumer, provider, both). tests/e2e/account/ covers auth flows with the Postmark sandbox.

  tests/contract/ asserts every public response against runtime Zod schemas derived from src/lib/models.ts. tests/perf/ holds k6 scenarios. tests/factories/ holds row builders; tests/fixtures/ holds golden responses for contract diffing.


3. Integration Infrastructure

  A Postgres test database is brought up by the harness through Testcontainers or a docker-compose service. Each Vitest worker uses an isolated schema namespace inside the same Postgres instance, isolated by Postgres's schema search_path. Schema is applied by prisma migrate deploy at suite start.

  Per-test reset is a transaction opened in beforeEach and aborted in afterEach. The shared prisma/seed.ts script provides repeatable fixtures; per-test factories under tests/factories/ supply variation for shape that changes per test.

  Sensitive data never lands in fixtures or factories. Test emails use example.com, test cards use the standard 4242 and 4111 numbers, test tokens are generated by the harness on the fly.


4. Database Tests

  A dedicated CI job applies prisma migrate deploy from an empty database and runs prisma migrate diff against schema.prisma to catch undeclared schema drift. For every migration in a PR, the harness also applies it on top of the previous schema's seed and confirms the previous code revision still functions against the post-migration database, catching migrations that would break the deployed application during a rolling deploy.


5. Performance and Security

  k6 scenarios under tests/perf exercise read-heavy and write-heavy paths at fixed RPS profiles, asserting p95 latency budgets per endpoint. Nightly runs hit staging; on-demand runs hit any environment. The Premium sweep is profiled against a synthetic dataset of 100k Providers to confirm completion within the function timeout.

  Security tests cover three boundaries:

  1.  Authentication enumeration. Login and forgot-password return identical response shapes regardless of whether the email exists.
  2.  Session boundary. State-mutating endpoints fail without a session; role-scoped endpoints fail for the wrong role.
  3.  Token replay. A successful reset invalidates outstanding tokens through security-stamp rotation; a confirmation token cannot pass as a reset token.

  npm audit blocks merges at high severity; Snyk runs nightly with the same threshold.


6. Quality Gates

  - Statement coverage of src/lib targets ≥ 80%. Coverage reports upload as a workflow artifact and post a Slack summary on push to main.
  - Stryker runs weekly mutation testing against the highest-stakes modules (premium math, payment service). Surviving mutants are filed and burned down in the next sprint.
  - Lint and typecheck are required jobs alongside the test suite; both must report green for the merge button to enable.


7. Continuous Integration

  Every Pull Request runs lint, typecheck, unit, integration, contract, migrate-diff and security-audit. The integration suite shards across four parallel workers; total wall time targets ten minutes for a clean PR.

  Push to main reruns the PR pipeline and adds the end-to-end and performance baselines against the freshly-deployed staging environment. A red e2e on main pages the on-call rotation.

  A scheduled nightly run executes the full performance suite, the Snyk audit and the Stryker mutation pass; the result is posted to the engineering Slack channel by 08:00 local time.


8. Local Workflows

  npm test                       Boot disposable Postgres, apply migrations, seed, run unit + integration + contract
  npm test -- --watch            Vitest watch mode for red-green-refactor
  npm test -- <pattern>          Filter by filename or test name
  npm run test:e2e               Playwright against a production build
  npm run test:e2e -- --headed   Interactive Playwright debugging
  npm run test:perf              k6 against a developer-supplied URL
